.TH HEKATE 1 "June 2009"
.SH NAME
hekate \- efficient BitTorrent seeder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hekate
.IR option "... " directory ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Hekate is an efficient BitTorrent seeder, designed to distribute
.I fairly
several hundreds of torrents to several thousands of peers.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-t
Do not contact the trackers.
.TP
.BI \-4
Forces
.B hekate
to use IPv4 adresses only.
.TP
.BI \-6
Forces
.B hekate
to use IPv6 adresses only.
.TP
.BI \-p " port"
Specify the TCP port number to be used by
.B hekate
\.
.TP
.BI \-N " max_unchoked"
The maximum number of simultaneously unchoked peers. The default is
50.
.TP
.BI \-C " credit"
The initial credit of a peer, in bytes. The value should be between
32kB (inclusive) and 1GB (exclusive). The default is 1048576 (1MB).
.TP
.BI \-d " level"
The debug level. The default is 0. A value of 4 will display every
send and received BitTorrent message.
.TP
.IR directory ...
The list of directories in which
.B hekate
should (recursively) look for torrents.
.SH FAIRNESS ALGORITHM
There is a pool of peers, split in two parts: unchoked (or active)
and choked (or waiting) peers. The size of the global pool is ten
times the size of the unchoked one (and cropped to 1014 in the
current version, but this is subject to change).

When a peer is accepted, it is given an initial credit. Each time a
piece is sent to a peer, its credit is decreased by the size of the
piece. When a peer runs out of credit, it is either replenished with
its initial credit (if the unchoked pool is not full), put in the
choke pool (giving a chance to other peers to enter the unchoked
pool) or dropped (if the unchoked pool is full too).
.SH BUGS
Plenty.  This is experimental software, run at your own risk.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR transmission (1),
.BR deluge (1),
.BR rtorrent (1).
.SH AUTHOR
Pejman Attar, Yoann Canal, Juliusz Chroboczek and Gabriel Kerneis.
